# Chapel-Hills-US-Pedestrian-Crashes-2007-2018
This dataset comes from the Police officers who reported these accidents in whole North Carolina region. The data set includes 59 attributes and 33707 rows, which also include null or missing values. To start with the analysis of the data, firstly I tried to clean up my data in Python and then try make some visualizations in Power BI. For cleaning the first process is to check the data structure, length and datatypes of the data. Then, I converted datatypes of some attributes. I also removed some attributes which have blank rows more than half of the dataset. I also saw that in one column named DrvrAge (Driver’s Age), many rows have value of 999 which means that for those values the data is unknown. After that, I tried to make some visualisations in Python to get some basic insights of the data and then try to make a dashboard using PowerBI.
In our data I am trying to find the correlations between the attributes, how data is clustered, and of there any pattern available in the data and I made some contingency tables, checking outliers of some attributes. Moreover, I found that for finding the correlations/collinearity between the given attributes, doing PCA analysis is a good option, which I will use to get results for next week assignments.
For this part of assignment, I got the following insights from our selected data, are as follow:
•	Firstly, I got to know that alcohol is not the major factor of pedestrian accidents in North Carolina from 2007-2017, if we consider the gender also both male and female. Most of the accidents happened when people are not unconscious with any kind of drugs.
•	Secondly, more than 75% of accidents were happened in clear weather for all the days in the week, so it is also a matter to think about for the government to ensure some new safety or traffic standards.
•	I get to know the status of the Ambulance presences, in 71% cases ambulance reached of the accident place on time which is considerably good.
•	I checked the average hour of same crash happened again and again after considering all regions, I got the result which shows that Bus-related accidents happened in average of every 10.69 hours and Dart-out type accidents happened in every 15.21 hours.
•	No work zone area has more accidents as compare to work zone area, and so on.

